Add a blog post: an alternative sidecar proxy for Istio. (#7743)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/mosn-proxy/index.md

---

> title: "Introducing MOSN: An Alternative Data Plane"

Reviewer: Makes it sound like Istio is introducing a new thing called MOSN. MOSN exists already and what's new is Istio integration. Maybe "Using MOSN with Istio: an alternative data plane".

Author: > Makes it sound like Istio is introducing a new thing called MOSN. MOSN exists already and what's new is Istio integration. Maybe "Using MOSN with Istio: an alternative data plane".

Done.

subtitle: "A Cloud Native Proxy for Edge or Service Mesh"
description: "An alternative sidecar proxy for Istio."
publishdate: 2020-07-17

> attribution: "Wang Fakang(mosn.io)"

Reviewer: add space before (

Author: > add space before (

Done.

keywords: [mosn,sidecar,proxy]
---

> 

Reviewer: Start with an overview like "MOSN (the Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in Go. It was built at ___ for ___ /sidecar/use case, and over time, we've added ___ features.  This new ___ thing means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio."

(Other note: you need a "why we built our own" section somewhere.)

Author: > Start with an overview like "MOSN (the Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in Go. It was built at ___ for ___ /sidecar/use case, and over time, we've added ___ features. This new ___ thing means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio."
> 
> (Other note: you need a "why we built our own" section somewhere.)

Done.

Reviewer: The ___ s were for you to fill in the blanks, not to go in as-is :)

It was built at Ant Financial for (whatever use case)... etc.

Author: I got it, it has been updated. Thank you.

Reviewer: light copy editing:

[MOSN](https://github.com/mosn/mosn) (the Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in GoLang. It was built at [Ant Group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant_Financial) as a sidecar/API Gateway/cloud-native Ingress/Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancer. Over time, we've added extra features, like a multi-protocol framework, multi-process plug-in mechanism, a DSL, and support for the [xDS APIs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol). Supporting xDS means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio.

Thanks to the efforts of the MOSN community, make MOSN has completed the most of adaptation for Istio. MOSN [v0.14.0 release](https://github.com/mosn/mosn/releases/tag/v0.14.0) is now compatible with Istio 1.5.x, and it has gone through the Bookinfo sample as the data plane of Istio.

## Background

> In the service mesh world, using Istio as the control plane has become the mainstream. Istio provides dynamic configuration of routes, service discovery, etc. to data plane proxies via the xDS protocol. The proxy can conveniently serve as Istio's data by simply interfacing with Envoy's xDS protocol. Istio's integration of third-party data planes can be implemented in three steps, as follows.

Reviewer: something like "Because Istio was built on Envoy, it uses Envoy's data plane APIs (collectively known as the xDS APIs). These APIs have been standardized separately from Envoy, and so by implementing them in MOSN, we are able to drop in MOSN as a replacement for Envoy.

link https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/tree/master/api and https://blog.envoyproxy.io/the-universal-data-plane-api-d15cec7a

Author: > something like "Because Istio was built on Envoy, it uses Envoy's data plane APIs (collectively known as the xDS APIs). These APIs have been standardized separately from Envoy, and so by implementing them in MOSN, we are able to drop in MOSN as a replacement for Envoy.
> 
> link https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/tree/master/api and https://blog.envoyproxy.io/the-universal-data-plane-api-d15cec7a

Done.

- Implement xDS protocols to fulfill the capabilities for data plane related services.

> - Build `proxyv2` images using Istio's script and set the relevant `SIDCAR` and other parameters.

Reviewer: SIDECAR ?

Author: `SIDECAR` is a environment variable, we can use it to set another proxy when build `proxyv2` image.
refer: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/25146

- Specify a specific data plane via the `istioctl` tool and set the proxy-related configuration.

## What is MOSN?

> MOSN is a network proxy written in GoLang. It can be used as a cloud-native network data plane, providing services with the following proxy functions: multi-protocol, modular, intelligent, and secure. MOSN is the short name of Modular Open Smart Network (proxy). MOSN can be integrated with any service mesh which supports xDS API. MOSN can also be used as an independent Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancer, API Gateway, cloud-native Ingress, etc.

Reviewer 2: add company affiliation/ origins?

Author: Yeah, this point written by the section of "Why MOSN?" .

Reviewer: I would cut this whole section now you've added it all above.

Author: Ok.

## Architecture

> MOSN follows the OSI (Open Systems Interconnection), it has four layers, NET/IO, Protocol, Stream, and Proxy, as shown in the following figure.

Reviewer: I don't see those layers written down in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model.

Are you trying to say "Just like TCP and OSI, we have used a layered model"?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer: I found it complicated; you might want to say "MOSN has a layered architecture; NET/IO.. " etc

Author: Ok, it has been updated. Thank you.

## What is the difference between MOSN and Istio default proxy? What are the advantages of MOSN?

### Differences in language stacks

MOSN is written in GoLang. GoLang has strong guarantees in terms of production efficiency and memory security. At the same time, GoLang has an extensive library ecosystem in the cloud-native era. The performance is acceptable and usable in the service mesh scenario. Therefore, MOSN has a lower intellectual cost for companies and individuals using languages such as GoLang and Java.

### Differentiation of core competence

- MOSN supports a multi-protocol framework, and users can easily access private protocols with a unified routing framework.
- Multi-process plug-in mechanism, which can easily extend the plug-ins of independent MOSN processes through the plug-in framework, and do some other management, bypass and other functional module extensions.
- Transport layer national secret algorithm support with Chinese encryption compliance, etc.

> ## MOSN with Istio

Reviewer: Is this a new feature?

Author: The section of MOSN with Istio is described that How to Using MOSN on Istio scenario.

MOSN can be used not only as a stand-alone Layer 4/Layer 7 load balancer, but can also be integrated into Istio as a sidecar proxy or ingress gateway in Kubernetes. The following is an introduction to the use of MOSN as an Istio data plane.

## Setup Istio

You can download a zip file for your operating system from the [Istio release](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/tag/1.5.2) page. This file contains: the installation file, examples and the `istioctl` command line tool.

> To download Istio (this example uses Istio 1.5.2) uses the following command.

Reviewer: Can you use 1.6?

Author: Now, MOSN has not been fully tested Istio 1.6, and the later versions will be compatible and adaptable.

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_VERSION=1.5.2

> $ curl -L {{< github_file >}}/release/downloadIstioCandidate.sh | sh -

Reviewer: I think you should use 
`$ curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -`

your link is what that resolves to.

Author: > I think you should use
> `$ curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -`
> 
> your link is what that resolves to.

Done.

{{< /text >}}

The downloaded Istio package is named `istio-1.5.2` and contains:
- `install/kubernetes`: Contains YAML installation files related to Kubernetes.
- `examples/`: Contains example applications.
- `bin/`: Contains the istioctl client files.

> Switch to the folder where of Istio located.

Reviewer: "where Istio is located"

Author: > "where Istio is located"

Done.

{{< text bash >}}
$ cd istio-$ISTIO_VERSION/
{{< /text >}}

Add the `istioctl` client path to `$PATH` with the following command.

{{< text bash >}}
$ export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/bin
{{< /text >}}

> Until now, it has been possible to flexibly customize the Istio control plane and data plane configuration parameters via the `istioctl` command line tool.

Reviewer: This line might belong in the next section

Author: > This line might belong in the next section

Done.

## Setting MOSN as the Data Plane

MOSN is specified as the data plane in Istio via the parameters of the istioctl command.

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl manifest apply  --set .values.global.proxy.image="mosnio/proxyv2:1.5.2-mosn"   --set meshConfig.defaultConfig.binaryPath="/usr/local/bin/mosn"

Reviewer: interesting question, why do you still call it 'proxyv2' ?

Author: `proxyv2` is a docker image that include `pilot-agent` and `proxy`. In this scenario we using MOSN as a `proxy`.

{{< /text >}}

> Check that Istio-related pod services are deployed successfully.

Reviewer: pods and services

Author: > pods and services

Done.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get svc -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

> If the service `STATUS` is Running, then Istio has been successfully installed and you can deploy the Bookinfo sample later.

Reviewer: 'installed "using MOSN" and you can'

Author: > 'installed "using MOSN" and you can'

Done.

> ## Bookinfo Examples

Reviewer: The post tails off here.  Your message is "At this point, you can do everything you would do with Envoy", but aside from proving it works, could they do something else here?

Is there a difference in how you debug?  Could you inspect a container when Bookinfo is deployed?  Could you talk about how to get logs, etc?

Author: > The post tails off here. Your message is "At this point, you can do everything you would do with Envoy", but aside from proving it works, could they do something else here?
> 
> Is there a difference in how you debug? Could you inspect a container when Bookinfo is deployed? Could you talk about how to get logs, etc?

Done.

---
title: "Using MOSN with Istio: an alternative data plane"
subtitle: "A Cloud Native Proxy for Edge or Service Mesh"
description: "An alternative sidecar proxy for Istio."

> publishdate: 2020-07-25

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2020-07-28
```

attribution: "Wang Fakang (mosn.io)"
keywords: [mosn,sidecar,proxy]
---

> [MOSN](https://github.com/mosn/mosn) (Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in GoLang. It was built at [Ant Group](https://www.antfin.com) as a sidecar/API Gateway/cloud-native Ingress/Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancer etc. Over time, we've added extra features, like a multi-protocol framework, multi-process plug-in mechanism, a DSL, and support for the [xDS APIs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol). Supporting xDS means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MOSN](https://github.com/mosn/mosn) (Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in GoLang. It was built at [Ant Group](https://www.antfin.com) as a sidecar/API Gateway/cloud-native Ingress/Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancer etc. Over time, we've added extra features, like a multi-protocol framework, multi-process plug-in mechanism, a DSL, and support for the [xDS APIs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol). Supporting xDS means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio. This configuration is not supported by the Istio project; for help, please see [Learn More](#learn-more) below.
```

> [MOSN](https://github.com/mosn/mosn) (Modular Open Smart Network) is a network proxy server written in GoLang. It was built at [Ant Group](https://www.antfin.com) as a sidecar/API Gateway/cloud-native Ingress/Layer 4 or Layer 7 load balancer etc. Over time, we've added extra features, like a multi-protocol framework, multi-process plug-in mechanism, a DSL, and support for the [xDS APIs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-docs/xds_protocol). Supporting xDS means we are now able to use MOSN as the network proxy for Istio.

Reviewer: add "This configuration is not supported by the Istio project; for help, please see [Learn More](#learn-more) below." at the end of this

(not doing suggested edit as I'm not sure about which e-mail address GitHub will use)

Author: Done.

## Background

In the service mesh world, using Istio as the control plane has become the mainstream. Because Istio was built on Envoy, it uses Envoy's data plane [APIs](https://blog.envoyproxy.io/the-universal-data-plane-api-d15cec7a) (collectively known as the xDS APIs). These APIs have been standardized separately from Envoy, and so by implementing them in MOSN, we are able to drop in MOSN as a replacement for Envoy. Istio's integration of third-party data planes can be implemented in three steps, as follows.

- Implement xDS protocols to fulfill the capabilities for data plane related services.
- Build `proxyv2` images using Istio's script and set the relevant `SIDECAR` and other parameters.
- Specify a specific data plane via the `istioctl` tool and set the proxy-related configuration.

> 

Reviewer 4: Please add a "## Support" section after "## Background" saying that MOSN and its integration with Istio is not a configuration supported by the Istio project.  Also, please describe where users who deploy Istio+MOSN should send questions and support requests (these should be links to MOSN resources, not Istio resources)

Author: > Please add a "## Support" section after "## Background" saying that MOSN and its integration with Istio is not a configuration supported by the Istio project. Also, please describe where users who deploy Istio+MOSN should send questions and support requests (these should be links to MOSN resources, not Istio resources)

Thanks your review, the support links have been written in both `Moving forward` and `Learn More` sections.

Reviewer: I've added a suggestion above in the intro section.  Is that good, Josh?

Author: @duderino @craigbox I have added a separate section about `Support` to make it clearer. Thanks your suggestion.

Reviewer: from Slack: "I think TOC would prefer you explicitly say that the Istio project doesn’t support this config"

Author: Ok, Done.

Reviewer 4: I'm happy with this statement ```This configuration is not supported by the Istio project; for help, please see [Learn More](#learn-more) below.``` thanks

At the same time, we received a lot of feedback and needs from the end user community. Everyone has the same needs and thoughts. So we combined the actual situation of the community and ourselves to conduct the research and development of MOSN from the perspective of satisfying the community and users. We believe that the open source competition is mainly competition between standards and specifications. We need to make the most suitable implementation choice based on open source standards.

> ## What is the difference between MOSN and Istio default proxy? What are the advantages of MOSN?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## What is the difference between MOSN and Istio's default proxy?
```

### Differences in language stacks

MOSN is written in GoLang. GoLang has strong guarantees in terms of production efficiency and memory security. At the same time, GoLang has an extensive library ecosystem in the cloud-native era. The performance is acceptable and usable in the service mesh scenario. Therefore, MOSN has a lower intellectual cost for companies and individuals using languages such as GoLang and Java.

### Differentiation of core competence

- MOSN supports a multi-protocol framework, and users can easily access private protocols with a unified routing framework.
- Multi-process plug-in mechanism, which can easily extend the plug-ins of independent MOSN processes through the plug-in framework, and do some other management, bypass and other functional module extensions.
- Transport layer national secret algorithm support with Chinese encryption compliance, etc.

> ### what are the drawbacks of MOSN

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### What are the drawbacks of MOSN
```

> - Because MOSN is written in GoLang, it has no better performance than Istio default proxy, but the performance is acceptable and usable in the service mesh scenario.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Because MOSN is written in GoLang, it doesn't have as good performance as Istio default proxy, but the performance is acceptable and usable in the service mesh scenario.
```

> - Compared with Istio default proxy, some features are not fully supported, such as WASM/HTTP3/Lua etc, but these are all in the [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12lgyCW-GmlErr_ihvAO7tMmRe87i70bv2xqe4h2LUz4/edit?usp=sharing) of MOSN, and the goal is to be fully compatible with Istio.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Compared with Istio default proxy, some features are not fully supported, such as WASM, HTTP3, Lua, etc.  However, these are all in the [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12lgyCW-GmlErr_ihvAO7tMmRe87i70bv2xqe4h2LUz4/edit?usp=sharing) of MOSN, and the goal is to be fully compatible with Istio.
```

## MOSN with Istio

> MOSN can be used not only as a stand-alone Layer 4/Layer 7 load balancer, but can also be integrated into Istio as a sidecar proxy or ingress gateway in Kubernetes. The following is an introduction to the use of MOSN as an Istio data plane.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following describes how to set up MOSN as the data plane for Istio.
```

## Setup Istio

You can download a zip file for your operating system from the [Istio release](https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/tag/1.5.2) page. This file contains: the installation file, examples and the `istioctl` command line tool.
To download Istio (this example uses Istio 1.5.2) uses the following command.

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_VERSION=1.5.2
$ curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -
{{< /text >}}

The downloaded Istio package is named `istio-1.5.2` and contains:
- `install/kubernetes`: Contains YAML installation files related to Kubernetes.
- `examples/`: Contains example applications.
- `bin/`: Contains the istioctl client files.

Switch to the folder where Istio is located.

{{< text bash >}}
$ cd istio-$ISTIO_VERSION/
{{< /text >}}

Add the `istioctl` client path to `$PATH` with the following command.

{{< text bash >}}
$ export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/bin
{{< /text >}}

## Setting MOSN as the Data Plane

> It has is possible to flexibly customize the Istio control plane and data plane configuration parameters using the `istioctl` command line tool. MOSN can be specified as the data plane for Istio using the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to flexibly customize the Istio control plane and data plane configuration parameters using the `istioctl` command line tool. MOSN can be specified as the data plane for Istio using the following command.
```

> Until now, it has been possible to flexibly customize the Istio control plane and data plane configuration parameters via the `istioctl` command line tool. MOSN is specified as the data plane in Istio via the parameters of the istioctl command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It has is possible to flexibly customize the Istio control plane and data plane configuration parameters using the `istioctl` command line tool. MOSN can be specified as the data plane for Istio using the following command.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl manifest apply  --set .values.global.proxy.image="mosnio/proxyv2:1.5.2-mosn"  --set meshConfig.defaultConfig.binaryPath="/usr/local/bin/mosn"
{{< /text >}}

Check that Istio-related pods and services are deployed successfully.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get svc -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

> If the service `STATUS` is Running, then Istio has been successfully installed using MOSN and you can deploy the Bookinfo sample later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the service `STATUS` is Running, then Istio has been successfully installed using MOSN and you can now deploy the Bookinfo sample.
```

## Bookinfo Examples

> You can run the Bookinfo samples through [MOSN with Istio tutorial](https://katacoda.com/mosn/courses/istio/mosn-with-istio) where you can find some other tutorials for MOSN and Istio. You can install MOSN and get to the same point you would have if you’d just followed the defaults and got Envoy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can run the Bookinfo sample by following the [MOSN with Istio tutorial](https://katacoda.com/mosn/courses/istio/mosn-with-istio) where you can find instructions for using MOSN and Istio. You can install MOSN and get to the same point you would have using the default Istio instructions with Envoy.
```

## Moving forward

> Next, MOSN will not only be compatible with the features of the new version of Istio, but also evolve in the following aspects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, MOSN will not only be compatible with the features of the latest version of Istio, but also evolve in the following aspects.
```

- _As a microservices runtime_, MOSN oriented programming makes services lighter, smaller and faster.
- _Programmable_, support WASM.
- _More scenario support_, Cache Mesh/Message Mesh/Block-chain Mesh etc.

> MOSN is an open source project that anyone in the community can use, improve, and enjoy. We'd love you to join us! [Here's](https://github.com/mosn/community) a few ways to find out what's happening and get involved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MOSN is an open source project that anyone in the community can use, improve, and enjoy. We'd love you to join us! [Here](https://github.com/mosn/community) are a few ways to find out what's happening and get involved.
```
